Group communication and interaction:  
 
1. Regular communication: 

Regular communication should occur through email, teams, or discord. This communication 
should include a simple update on ones progress of their portion of the project. When a 
member finishes their portion of the project, they should attach their finished product in 
an email to all group members, or message the teams chat. If it cannot be attached to the email, the member shall 
explain a way to view the finished product. If a member forgets to post progress, any 
member can send an inquiry email to the person who forgot. If the email is not responded 
to in 24 hours, the group will begin to take on that member‟s responsibilities. If the member has a good 
reason for not responding, it will be taken into consideration as to whether there will be 
disciplinary action; otherwise it will be an immediate minor offense. If however, the 
member responds within the 24 hour time period stating they forgot, no disciplinary 
action will be taken. If a member is having problems with their portion of the work, they 
should let the rest of the group knew immediately so they can received any needed help 
as soon as possible.  
 
2. Group communication on tardiness/missed meetings and meeting information: 
If a member has prior knowledge of a missed meeting or tardiness of a day or more, that 
member should notify all members and decide wether it will be best to reschedule meeting. If it is the day of the 
meeting and a group member is going to miss the meeting or knows they are going to be 
tardy by more than five minutes, that member shall send a text message to all group 
members informing them of the situation. Failure to do so more than once will result in a 
minor offense.  
 
3. Communication ethics: 
There shall be an understanding among group members that all opinions or input by any 
individual member is valued and will be respected, even if disagreed with. People and/or 
their opinions shall not in any way be degraded or dismissed but all opinions shall have 
equal consideration. If a member feels his opinions are being rejected without good 
reason, he has a right to bring it up to the group leader and/or the group. The group will 
then discuss the situation and either reconsider their opinions, or make a case as to why 
the members opinions are not being used. If this situation happens more than three times the member has a right to go to the TA and 
state their case. If the problem is not solved by the TA, the opportunity is then open to 
state their case to Rock. 
 
4. Group structure: 
These following roles are here to help the group be more efficient: 

Leader – This role belongs to the group leader. This jedi master is responsible for the flow 
of the meeting and has a helpful role in the delegation of responsibilities. 

Note Taker – This role belongs to the meeting note taker. This person is responsible to take 
notes at all the meetings and to relay the important information and any decisions made 
during the meeting to the other members via email by the end of the next day. 

Disciplinary Note Taker -They will be responsible for recording any disciplinary actions taken toward any member of 
the group. 

Agenda Maker – This role belongs to the agenda maker. This member is 
responsible for making an agenda of subjects which need to be covered in the upcoming 
meeting. Will contact members when an immediate meeting needs to happen. 

If any member in a role does not follow through with his responsibilities on multiple 
occasions or if for some reason a member is not able to perform their duties, they shall be 
replaced by group decision.  
 
5. Decision making: 
Any decisions which need to be made about the project, project direction or disciplinary 
action will be made by a majority vote. Any decisions about delegation will be covered in 
part six. Members are expected to vote within 24 hours.
 
6. Group decisions on delegation: 

The delegation of responsibilities to group members will be decided in the following 
fashion. The responsibilities will be discussed and decided on as a group decision. Then 
each group member has the opportunity to volunteer for the task he may want. If a group 
member does not volunteer for a task, they will be assigned one by the leader. If a group 
member feels the portion of responsibility is unfair, they may voice their concern and 
state a reason why. If a majority of the group feels this member is correct, the 
responsibilities will be reformed and the delegation process will start again. However, if a team member wants
to take a larger role, they can also voice their opinion and group members will decide
wether the work is reasonable to complete in a specific time frame.



